CHATBOT WITH RULE-BASED RESPONSES

def AIchatbot():
    print("AI Chatbot: Hi! I am your friendly AI  assistant. Ask me anything!.Type 'bye' to exit.")
    
    while True:
        user_input = input("Me: ")

        if "hello" in user_input or "hi" in user_input:
            print("AI Chatbot: Hi there! How can I help you?")
        
        elif "how are you" in user_input:
            print("AI Chatbot: I'm doing fine! How about you?")
        
        elif "what is your name" in user_input:
            print("AI Chatbot: I am a chatbot I dont have a paticular name.")
        
        elif "Are you human?" in user_input or "are you a human?" in user_input : 
            print("AI Chatbot: Nope, I'm not human — I'm an AI here to help you!")
        
        elif "tell me a joke" in user_input :
            print("AI Chatbot: Why did the math book look sad? Because it had too many problems!")
            
        elif "tips to improve focus" in user_input :
            print("AI Chatbot: Break tasks into smaller steps and tackle them one at a time to stay focused.Minimize distractions by creating a quiet, organized workspace and setting clear goals.")
        
        elif "how to learn programming?" in user_input :
            print("AI Chatbot: Start with learning the basics of a programming language like Python.Practice by building small projects and solving problems to improve your skills over time.")
            
        elif "do you like pizza?" in user_input : 
            print("AI Chatbot: I dont eat, but I have heard pizza is a slice of heaven! If I could try it, I would probably love it—especially with extra data on top! ")
            
        elif "what is your favourite color?" in user_input : 
            print("AI Chatbot: My favorite color is  Mint Green — it's fresh and calming")
        
        elif "bye" in user_input:
            print("AI Chatbot: Goodbye! Have a great day!.")
            break
        
        else:
            print("AI Chatbot : Sorry, I didn't understand that please ask any other queries.")
AIchatbot()
